---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E3 Performing WODS
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2021-09-27
labels:
---

The last WOD that I completed was Invoice 1, which was about making a sales invoice for 5 different items by using variables. This WOD also included expressions and JavaScript, which was pretty exciting (and a little frustrating at times...). 
<br>
My first attempt at Invoice 1 went relatively smoothly, until I got to step 8. I did not understand the instructions and kept rereading it but still felt stuck. So, I started searching up terms like “row template” and “string templates” to get a better idea of what I was supposed to do. Long story short, this ended up becoming a rabbithole of Javascript term definitions and tutorials. Luckily my timer went off, and I finally gave in to watching the screencast. After a couple more redos (because of mistakes in my recording), I finished the WOD in 4 attempts. 
<br>
Reading through the tasks and mentally going through the steps before starting the WOD helped me with the first several steps. One problem with this was that I only skimmed through the instructions, so I did not have a good understanding of string templates and created a big setback in the long-run. For the upcoming WODs, I will pay more attention to the smaller details written in the tasks in order to be more efficient with my time.
<br>
Click <a href="https://github.com/E-Melchor/ITM352_F21_repo_/tree/main/WODs/Invoice1">Invoice1</a> to see further details.