---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E7 Reflecting on Assignment 3
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2021-12-15
labels:
---

1. Briefly describe your system (e.g. A store selling Pokemon game cards)
My system is a tea store called “The Jasmine Dragon”. Users can choose from 4 types of teas, each with 3 different varieties.

2. Any notable shortcomings, bugs, problems, or additional features not implemented?
I still have a hard time working with sessions, so a lot of the features do not work. Specifically the cart... it does not work properly.

3. Describe what you are most proud of about your system:

	
4. Describe what you are least happy with your system:
I’m disappointed that I was unable to get the cart to work. 

5. How was developing this assignment different than assignment #2?
This assignment had different concepts for moving data around, which made approaching Assignment 3 a bit more tricky. 
	
6. When you ran into a problem, what did you do to address it?
First thing I would look for was syntax errors, since that was a common mistake I made in the past 2 assignments. If I could not find anything, I either reviewed the labs and examples or searched online.

7. Describe what worked well in doing this assignment?
	
8. Describe what did not work well in doing this assignment?

9.  What did you learn from doing this assignment?
Like Assignments 1 and 2, planning and timing is important. Assignment 3 also taught me how crucial it is to understand concepts before trying to implement them. I think if I’d put in more effort to understand how sessions work, it would’ve been easier to figure out what needed to be done.

10. If you could go back in time and do things differently, what would you change?
Since I felt like my Assignment 2 did not turn out the way I liked, I ended up starting Assignment 3 from scratch. Building the system back up from square 1 took up a lot more time than I expected, so I ended up spending more time on things that would have been already completed in the past 2 assignments and not enough time on Assignment 3 features. If I could go back, I would have done a better job with Assignment 2, which would have made starting this assignment a lot better.

11. Estimate the % of time you spent (a) thinking about how to do something, (b) writing code (but do not include testing, (c) testing and debugging
About 60% of my time was spent thinking, 20% writing code, and 20% testing/debugging.

12. Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to the assignment (including yourself) and explain briefly your rationale for the percentage breakdown. Be sure to include an overview of what specifically you and your partners contributed (e.g. “I worked on the security and my partner 1 worked on personalization”)
Didn’t have a partner, so 100%.
