---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Checkpoint Assignment 3
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2021-12-07
labels:
---

1. Page Designs
Screencast with page designs and explanations on <a href="https://youtu.be/1cSgzYPL04Y">Youtube</a>.

2. Shopping Cart Design
	For my shopping cart, I will be repurposing the invoice page. I also plan on including a link on each product page that will lead to the shopping cart, which has the number of items currently in the cart. On the shopping cart page (which will be titled “Review Order”), users will be able to remove items from the cart, as well as undo the removal.

3. Sessions
	Sessions will be used to maintain individual shopping carts for each user so that data will not be overridden if there are multiple users. When a user adds a drink to their order, the selected flavor is added as an object to the cart array. For example, if a user orders 3 green tea and 1 jasmine tea, their cart would look like this:
        cart: {green tea: [3], jasmine tea: [1]}

4. Security
    Users must be logged in to view the Review Order page (aka the shopping cart). If they try to review their order but are not logged in, they will receive an alert to log in. 

5. UI Personalization
	To include personalization, the “Login” button will change to “Logout Username on the product pages. Then after placing an order, a final page will display “See you soon Username! Your order will be ready in about _____ minutes. Your receipt has been emailed to Username@hawaii.edu”

6. Partners
    I’ll be splitting up the work between me, myself, and I. :)

7. Assignment 3 vs Assignment 2
	Assignment 3 will have a lot more planning. My big mistake for Assignment 2 was not being thorough with planning, then getting lost in the code and not understanding what was going on. This led to rushing towards the end without much of a plan. I’ll be starting fresh and begin with Assignment 1 code, but refer to Assignment 2 for data validation.