---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E4 Progres in Programming Report
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2021-11-25
labels:
---

1 - My programming skills have greatly improved in the following ways:

2 - I need to work on the following to improve my programming skills:

3 - I have learned a lot from doing WODs and I can do them without copying the screencast:
I wish I could say that I completed all of the WODs without copying anything from the screencast, but for most of the WODs, there were at least one or two steps that I got stuck on. When I did get stuck, I would reread the steps again or skim through parts of the readings that I thought would help me understand the concept. Sometimes reviewing would give me a hint on what to do, other times I would still be stumped on what to do and would end up watching the screencast up to the part I was having trouble with.

4 - The labs have help me learn and I am able to complete them with confidence:
Yes, the labs have helped me learn more about programming. I like how the labs are hands-on, but also have guidance in case we have questions. Similar to learning spoken languages, I think it’s better to spend class time actually writing out code than sitting through a lecture because there are things that will only come up while you are practicing (such as errors and troubleshooting).
However, I did not always complete the labs with confidence. There were some labs (especially when we first started server side coding) where I would fall behind and get lost. Looking back, I should’ve just spoken up and asked questions, but I’m glad that the zoom classes are recorded so I can always go back to review parts that I missed.


5 - I learned a lot from my experience doing Assignment 1 and feel ready to work on Assignment 2:
Yes. I. learned. so. much. In particular, I learned a lot about server side programming. Even though we went over a lot in Lab 13, working through Assignment 1 forced me to actually understand what in the world was going on, rather than simply copying, pasting, and hoping for the best.
Some things I learned:
- Comment first, then code
- Draw flow charts or write out tasks before starting (it helps me visualize what I need to do)
- Test my code frequently (don’t write more than 7 lines of code without testing)
- Start working early because things will take longer than expected
- Copying code from online can sometimes cause more trouble than help
- Be prepared for silly mistakes
- Don’t be afraid to ask for help


6 - I think the class can be improved to help my learning in the following ways:
1. Starting Assignment 1 earlier
Introducing Assignment 1 sooner in the course would help because it is a bit overwhelming to complete in a week and a half. I think starting Assignment 1 after completing the invoice WODs would be a good time because students would start the products_display and invoice files first, then have more time to focus on the server.

2. Please make the lab numbers match the module number
Something not very important (and borderline silly), but it would be nice to have the module and lab numbers match. In the beginning of the course, I got a little confused and thought I missed some labs because the numbers skipped around a bit.


7 - What helps me the most in class are (WODs, Labs, class website, screencasts, readings, quizzes, one on one help, working with classmates, etc.):
A combination of labs, WODs, and one-on-one help has helped me learn the most in class.
- Labs: The labs were a good starting point for developing a better understanding of concepts and putting them into practice. It was like a group review of the content from the module readings. I also liked doing troubleshooting while we went through the labs because it was a good reminder that 1) not everything will go as planned and 2) troubleshooting is something you can't learn from a textbook, it's something you need to practice in order to get better at it.
- WODs: WODs were great to test how much I actually understood. 
- One-on-one help: Getting individual help clarified things I still had trouble with or didn't understand after going through the labs and WODs. Even though I haven’t asked for a lot of individual help so far, I definitely plan on asking for help more often when I have specific problems because 1) it saves way more time (which can be used to work through other problems/tasks) and 2) explanations can be more thorough because they are aimed at a specific problem.