---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E1 UI Basics 
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2021-09-16
labels:
---

After reading through the instructions for Browser History  1, I thought it would be easy to complete within the Sd time (20 to 25 minutes) on the first try. Instead, I was still working on step 5 when my 25 minute timer went off. What slowed me down was trying to remember little details, like using the href attribute to make links instead of src. Before trying again, I reviewed the module readings (specifically the parts that I was having a hard time recalling during the WOD). Reviewing definitely helped because my second attempt took 17 minutes. Although I completed within the Av time, I wanted to try again to clean up my screencast, which showed me hopping all over the place between VS Code, timer, and my notes. My last attempt ended up being just under 12 minutes.

For Browser History 2, my big mistake was forgetting to add the link to the Google fonts, which I realized after watching Professor Johnson’s screencast. I also forgot to add a couple semicolons in the style sheet, which caused some errors. My second attempt turned out much better than the first. However, my screencast recording was messy like my second attempt for Browser History 1, so I decided to try again. I did another quick review of the CSS reading and finished my third attempt in 4 minutes.

Browser History 3 was the most challenging WOD out of the three. My first attempt went way over the DNF time because I had no idea where to start. I used most of the time looking at the class website with Inspect Element to figure out how to add the navigation bar. I knew that it had something to do with the div class tag, but was not sure where to go from there. I decided to watch Professor’s screencast, which clarified which tags to use and where to put them. Watching the recording definitely helped, but I still forgot to add various elements in my second and third attempts. One thing I had trouble with in my third try was the div id=”navbar” tag. It took a big chunk of time and experimenting to figure out that for some reason, VS Code didn’t recognize the id attribute until I deleted and retyped it. Not understanding why the tag wasn’t working was frustrating, so I decided to take a quick break before jumping into my fourth attempt. This break helped clear my head and a fresh pair of eyes to finish in about 6.5 minutes.

After going through this first set of WODs, I’ll definitely review the readings right before attempting to improve my efficiency for the next assignment. I think it’s also important to remember that it’s okay to take breaks. Sometimes all you need is some fresh air. 
