---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E5 Reflecting on Assignment 2 Technical Essay
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2021-12-10
labels:
---

1. Assignment 2 added a login and registration page to the e-commerce website that was created in Assignment 1. The big challenge was moving transient data between the login/registration page and the invoice for personalization. More details can be found <a href="https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/150.Assignment2/experience-Assignment2.html">here</a>.

2. One thing I learned is that there are multiple ways to approach a problem, like using a query string or a variable on the server to move transient data. It’s not something new, but I have a habit of thinking that there is only one answer to a problem. Assignment 2 was a good way to break this mindset and work with different approaches.

3. No partner, so I did 100%.

4. Ahh, this is where I messed up. I did not plan things well and ended up not getting help for things that I was having trouble with. If I could turn back the clock, I would spend less time on testing my data validation and spend more time (and get help) on the transient data aspect. I did use Google to find out how to validate the email data, which did not take too much time to find (about 5 minutes tops), but it did take a while for me to understand how it worked (about another 10 minutes).

5. Unlike Assignment 1, this assignment had a lot more freedom and gave us a lot more choices on how to approach the code. It was a bit easier structure wise because the foundation of the website was already created in Assignment 1. However, there was a lot more thinking to do and you had to have a better understanding of what the heck was going on.

6. 	Out of 100%, I spend about 30% thinking, 25% writing code, and 45% testing and debugging. I spent a lot more time testing and debugging than I probably should have because I did not plan well and had to spend most of my time figuring out what was going wrong.

7. In the beginning, I was doing well with planning, writing, and testing my code for validating the email data. Although it took a long time, doing a lot of testing helped me feel confident in this part of the server. However, I began running out of time, and did not pay as much close attention when writing out the rest of the code.

8. If I could go back, I would definitely start earlier, plan more thoroughly, and ask for help sooner. A very noticeable theme in this reflection is a lack of planning, which would have made this assignment go smoother.